.. include:: substitutions.txt

|m| 3 Data Import
==================================

|m| 4 can access data acquired from measurement instruments operated by previous |m| 3 software. 
By enabling the |m| 3 data import function, you can open any |m| 3 database, navigate through stored tests and get a preview of images, and convert the requested tests to the latest |m| file format. 

Once the test data has been converted and stored into the newer format, it can be opened and used exactly as any other |m| file, taking advantage of nice vector plotting, flexible data storage, reporting, and advanced math operations. 

.. hint:: The M3 data import function works only on |win| OS. 

====================
Enabling the |m| 3 import function
====================

The import function can be configured in the Preferences panel. This panel is accessible from the Help menu in Browser and from the Misura menu in Graphics. 

You find a specific ``Misura 3`` tab where you can enable or disable compatibility mode. After enabling it, click ``Save`` button (upper-right), then exit from any opened |m| window. 


====================
Opening |m| 3 databases
====================

The import function is available both in the Browser and in the Graphics applications. 

---------------------
From Browser
---------------------
Open the Browser app. Amongst recent items, you will notice a new empty column named ``Recent Misura 3 databases``. You can select a previously opened database from the list of recent paths by double-click, or open a new one using the ``New`` button at the bottom of the list. 

When a database is selected either ways, a Database Dialog opens. Multiple database dialogs can be opened at the same time, remaining active in the Browser's Database tab.

By double clicking on a test row, the test is converted to the latest |m| format and immediately opened in a new Browser tab. 

Now all advanced Browser operations and functionalities are available. 

---------------------
From Graphics
---------------------
In the Graphics app a new ``Misura 3`` menu appears on the right of standard ``Misura`` menu, in the top menubar (File, Edit, etc).

Misura 3 menu lists recently opened databases and lets you open a new one. When a database is selected, a Database dialog opens.

By double clicking on a test row, the test is converted to the latest |m| format and immediately added to the current graph.

It is now possible to create beautiful and complex plots out of |m| 3 data.

---------------------
The Database Dialog
---------------------
The Database Dialog lists all tests contained in the database, in reverse chronological order.
Simple searches against test name can be performed via the text input on the bottom of the list, followed by a click on "Query" button.
The listing can also be restricted by test type, using the chooser menu.

If a selected test contains images, they will be previewed on the bottom of the dialog. 

Below the query input line there are controls about how the format conversion should happen. Using these controls it is possible to force/avoid the overwriting of any previously converted file.


====================
Limitations
====================

* |m| 3 tests does not contain all the metadata generated by a newer instrument. Part of the metadata needed for correct interoperability is guessed or simply filled with a default.
* For the above reason, |m| 3 data import should be considered experimental and might lead to unexpected or wrong results. 

